# SNHU-CS-340
8-2 Journal: Portfolio Item Assignment

<b>How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future? </b>
- Writing code that is maintainable, readable, and adaptable is necessary for long term development and collaboration. Considering my work on the CRUD python module from Project One, one way to achieve code like this is modular code design. Being able to break down code into modular components will allow for easier time with organizing and adaptability to the code. For example, the CRUD module had separate modules for creating, reading, updating, and deleting with made it possible to easy one with ease without affecting the others. Proper comments and documentations will aid the current developer later on in the development or another developer joining in on the development later on. While developing the code, it is also good to have consistent formatting and style as it is easier to read and understand as development continues. These are a few examples on how to develop code that is maintainable, readable, and adaptable.

<b>How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?</b>
- This is how I will typically approach a problem, including the database and dashboard requirements requested by Grazioso Salvare, and how it might differ from previous assignments in other courses. First, I ensure that I fully understand the problem and what is the desired solution. In the case of the request by Grazioso Salvare, I need to make sure that I understood their specific needs and wants for the database and dashboard. This included data storage, retrieval, and visualization requirements. I would also ensure that throughout developments that extensive testing is performed for quality assurance and interacting with the client to gather feedback and make any necessary adjustments to create an adaptable solution to their needs.

<b>What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?</b>
- In my eyes, computer scientists play a critical role when it comes to solving complex problems in today's technical world, making technological advancements, and overall improving various aspects of today's society. This matters, considering the project created for Grazioso Salvare to do their work better as it promotes efficiency and productivity. The database and dashboard also allows Grazioso Salvare to have greater ease on obtaining specified information. The automation such as the tracking on animals improves the efficiency and reduces human error.
